---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/humanities/unit-1-urbanization-and-sustainability/class-notes-and-work/12-to-what-extent-can-management-08-08-2022/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

# 300 Word Essay:
##### __To what extent__ can management and intervention ensure the implementation and sustainability in Urban contexts?
Management and intervention is an integral part of a functioning urban area; it can provide a framework for the development and the adaptation of an urban city towards the implementation of sustainable ideas. Various decisions made by those in power influence the population and the urban areas they reside in. For example, the advocation for usage of renewable resources by the head of state and subsidization of renewable energy technologies will encourage private sector to adopt them as well.
However, issues arise in the implementation process—for example, cities such as Masdar have ambitious goals for sustainability, but its construction involves a high use of non-renewable resources, high carbon emissions and high water consumption. Once it is built, it may be considered sustainable, but it is surrounded by unsustainable developments that contribute far more to climate change. This is one of the biggest challenges that comes with the transitioning process towards a sustainable city; in the earlier example, there is a clear issue with the cost and environmental issues in the creation of the city itself. The lack of intervention in the surrounding Emirates has contributed to a high carbon footprint, increasing with rapid urban development. The cost of developing Masdar has been $22 billion, yet it only has 1000 residents due to expensive costs and lack of job opportunities.
Curitiba, Brazil, has a population of 2 million. Rather than creating a new city, Curitiba has adapted itself to have more recycling centres, natural environments (over a 1000 parks) and a central public transportation service adopted by 80% of its population. Through cognizance of future expanse and city development, the city government was able to adapt Curitiba to increase sustainability and quality of life. 
The two case studies indicate that a major issue involved in sustainable development is the cost of the project. However, this concern can be partially alleviated by choosing to adapt an existing, populated urban centre instead of creating a new one, forcing it to compete with surrounding cities. Thus, it can concluded that urban planning and management is necessary for the sustainable development of urban areas.
