---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/humanities/unit-1-urbanization-and-sustainability/class-notes-and-work/7-25-07-2022-land-use-models/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---

# Class Notes
- Settlements
	- Population
	- Demand for resources
	- Approach to urbanization
		- Socio-political interactions determine economic activity

# Slide 14

**What do you see in this image?**
- I see two examples of land use models, which describes how land is used in an urban setting. 

**What do these numbers mean?**
- The Burgess and Hoyt model signify the distribution of how land is used, with the centre of the city (CBD) in the centre, followed by concentric circles of factories, working class, middle class and upper class housing. 
- In the early-mid 20th century, factories were located towards the centre of the city. Hence, having labourers living near the factory decreases costs and increases output. Consequently due to separation and social hierarchies, the middle class and upper class housing resided in the suburban areas of the city. However, this may be different today.


# Land-Use Models Page 9-12
From [this reading]([urbanization _ doc.pdf - Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Li-0sAVuZnjLtquoMEnvHqGl42-Hwu8I/view))
- The CBD is located in the centre of the city. It is the most accessible through road and rail routes. The Burgess model explains that due to the CBD being congested with vehicular and pedestrian traffic, the CBD was not an attractive place for housing. Hoyt's model was proposed after the emergence of public transport, which changes the housing sector as residential neighbourhoods for the middle class can exist near to the CBD.

- Major land users in the CBD became shops, banks and offices. Being central to the city, they were accessible to the largest amount of people possible. The development of high-rises arose to compensate for the high real-estate cost and high demand. Shops tend to be larger department stores and located in malls.

- Industries in the 21st century may not be located in the CBD due to necessitating larger buildings and access to roadways to transport goods. In the 20th century, industries were typically located near canals and rivers so that waste can be dumped easily.

- 