---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/humanities/unit-1-urbanization-and-sustainability/class-notes-and-work/8-26-07-2022-arguments-industrialization-and-urbanization/"}
---

# Arguments
- An argument is a set of claims (premises) offered as reasons to believe or accept another claim (conclusion.)
- The same argument can be written in many different ways
- Putting an argument in "standard form " can be very helpful when analysing arguments.
- Arguments  must have a premise and a conclusion
- Standard form and infer form—the former makes it easy to understand the premise behind the argument.
- "If I become rich, then I'll be happy."
	- "I become rich" is *sufficient* to guarantee that "I'll be happy"
	- If A then B = A is sufficient for B
- "Rishikesh needs oxygen to survive"
	- If Rishikesh does not have "oxygen" he will not "survive"
	- If Rishikesh is surviving, he has oxygen
- Biconditional:
	- A is necessary and sufficient for B ←→ A if and only B ←→ If B then A and if A then B


**Is Industrialization a necessary condition for Urbanization? Or a sufficient one?**
- Industrialization is the source of power for economic growth, and urbanization is the manifestation of industrialization. 
- Industrialization involves transformation of an agrarian society into an industrial society.
- Urbanization is a consequence of industrialization as people seek jobs, infrastructure and better living standards.


Answer: 
- Industrialization is a factor that causes urbanization as it involves the transformation of an agrarian society into an industrial society. People seek jobs, technology, infrastructure and better living conditions which only exist due to industrialization.