---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/humanities/unit-1-urbanization-and-sustainability/class-notes-and-work/9-formative-assessment-1-lp-6/"}
---

# Formative Assessment—Task 
Formative Assessment—Task 
Criterion B: 14 marks
SOI: Sustainable choices allow human systems to thrive in the future in and in coexistence with the environmental systems. 

**Formulate a clear and focused research question that would allow you to investigate the statement of inquiry:  (2 marks)**

Which sustainable choices be made to ensure that human systems can thrive and coexist with environmental systems from 2010 to 2030 in India?

**Justify the relevance of your research question to the statement of inquiry. (2 marks)**

This research question is relevant to the statement of inquiry because it references the relationship between ‘human systems’ and ‘environmental systems’, and the importance of ‘sustainable choices’. 

**With reference to the concept of management/sustainability, formulate one sub-question you would ask to investigate your research question. (2 marks)**

How can human systems in Indian megacities adapt to renewable sources of energy to reduce the environmental impact of fossil fuels?

**List two pieces of information you would need to investigate your research question. (2 marks)**

Information about India's current pollution rates and any efforts/plans towards sustainability in the past and present
Different/alternative methods of producing and storing energy already used by other countries, and by what margin they would help make India's energy system more sustainable.


**List two sources of information you would consult to investigate your research question. (2 marks)**

I would consult environmental activists/NGOs like UNEP (United Nations Environmental Programme) to find out the impact of the current energy sources and consumption on the environment, particularly the air.

I would also consult manufacturers of renewable energy plants such as wind turbines or solar panels (such as Adani Green Energy Ltd) to understand the efficiency of these compared to non-renewable energy sources, and to find out the best alternative, based on environmental impact and cost.


**Outline the relevance of one piece of information you listed in part (d). (2 marks)**
Knowing about past and current efforts towards sustainability would help in making better-informed decisions about possible efforts that could be made in the future. Information about India’s current state and system would give us an idea of how extensive the idea needs to be.
Learning about systems of producing and storing energy that are already being used by other countries gives a more realistic approach that is already tried and tested, leading to a more reliable output.

**Outline one problem or challenge you might face when carrying out your research. (2 marks)**
A possible challenge we could face during research is finding an appropriate system that fits all of India’s needs, as it is a developing country with a large population that would need a realistic solution.

