---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/english/unit-1-jane-eyre/22-07-2022-style/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false,"dgShowLocalGraph":true}
---

# Class Wiki (1)
1. Epics
2. Fables
3. Fairy tales
4. Myths
5. Legends
6. Adventure Story
7. Biography 
8. Bildungsroman 

- Adventure stories, bildungsroman (coming of age) and biographies are typically novels.
- Myths, Legends, Fables and Fairy tales are traditional stories.
- Epics are categorized under oral tradition.
**Oral Tradition (Epics):**

- Journey of the hero (protagonist)
- Hero has a fatal flaw 
- Able to be narrated as individual stories
- Features supernatural or godlike intervention

**Fables:**
- Short and simple
- Associated with morals

**Fairytales**
- Has supernatural elements
- Good vs Evil theme
- Flat characters
- Warning stories
- Concise

**Legends:**
- Larger than life heroes
- Grand and exaggerated 
- Heroes have historical significance. 

**Myths:**
- Based on religion
- Supernatural
- Used to explain natural phenomena


**How is the hero portrayed differently**
1.  The heroine is portrayed differently in Jane Eyre because there is no damsel that needs saving from a capable hero. Rather, the heroine battles isolation, psychological and physical trauma, and long journeys. Towards the ending of the book, Jane leaves Moorhouse for Thornfield and reunites with Mr Rochester, and still loves him despite him being blind.
- Mr Rochester is considered the 'hero' and is portrayed differently as an imperfect hero. Realism was not yet a concept when Jane Eyre was published, and having imperfect heroes was not common. He was not described as especially attractive or philanthropic, but aristocratic and authoritative, yet being intelligent. Mr Rochester undergoes character development as he becomes repentant. He is considered a hero because like Jane, does not conform to pre-established norms of society.

#### Style
- Style is the way in which a story is written, and involves various stylistic choices that change the impact the story makes on the reader. There are various elements that are encompassed in 'style' including tonality, grammar, descriptive techniques, language and vocabulary, tone, and more. 
- Style is what sets various pieces apart, as it conveys what can be an ordinary fact into something memorable for the reader, utilizing various literary devices such as similes and metaphors, cumulative sentences and passive voice. 
- Elements of style
	- Literary Devices
	- Grammar and use of punctuation 
	- Narrator: The point of view and events described by the narrator
	- Tone: The general mood or atmosphere of the story.
	- Sentence structure: The arrangement of various words in a sentence
	- Diction: The use of word choice/vocabulary
- Style is crucial in literary texts; it helps build a story, enthral and retain the reader and makes a story memorable. It is a tool that if manipulated correctly, can be powerful. 


#### Chapter 15
- Mr Rochester explains to Jane about how Adele came under his care, and how Adele is not really his daughter, but the daughter of his French mistress who was with another man, which ended in Mr Rochester leaving the Frenchwoman, taking care of Adele and shooting the man.
- Jane is unable to sleep and hears a peculiar laugh coming from Mr Rochester's room. She steps out to investigate and finds his room on fire, which she found very suspicious. Mr Rochester thanked her and said he was indebted to her, but did not reveal who set the bed on fire the following day. 

- This chapter is significant because despite Jane only being a governess, Mr Rochester opens up to her, revealing intimate details of his past one typically may not know about. Later, the fire is one of the first major instances of Bertha Mason (Rochester's wife in the attic) that has caused significant damage and attention.

#### Chapter 16
- Mr Rochester leaves for a party, and Jane gets to know he will be there for a week or longer.
- Jane attempts to control her feelings towards Mr Rochester, and she expresses some jealousy as she thinks of Ms Ingram, a woman supposedly interested in Mr Rochester. She does this by creating portraits of herself and Ms Ingram (despite not having seen her before)

- This chapter is significant because Jane's love for Mr Rochester is progressively unveiled as she battles her feelings for him, and using art as a coping mechanism.