---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/personal-project/learning-goal/cancer/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

# In-Depth Research into Cancer and its Types
```toc

```

## Types of Cancer

### Skin Cancer
Skin cancer involves the abnormal growth of skin cells, typically developing on the skin exposed to the sun. However, it can also occur on areas of the skin not exposed to sunlight. There are three primary types of skin cancer—Basal Cell Carcinoma, Squamous Cell Carcinoma and Melanoma.  
#### Basal Cell Carcinoma
Basal cell carcinoma begins in the basal cells which are the skin cells that replace old cells in the lower part of the epidermis. This appears on the surface of the skin. It usually does not spread to other parts of the body, but in the rare instance that it does, it can be life threatening. 80% of all skin cancers are basal cell cancers.
#### Squamous Cell Cancer
Squamous cell cancer affects the cells on the outermost part of the epidermis. Squamous cells can also be found in certain areas such as mucous membranes or the lungs. When it forms on the skin, it is known as cutaneous squamous cell cancer. It is typically found on areas of the body exposed to UV (ultraviolet) sunlight. It is treatable, but can become fatal without it. It is the second most common type of skin cancer, mostly occurring in the head or neck region.
#### Melanoma
Melanoma accounts for 1% of all skin cancers, and develops from cells that give your skin colour. Skin colour is caused by a pigment known as melanin. The cells that give skin colour are known as melanocytes, and it can form noncancerous or cancerous moles. They can develop anywhere in the body, but are most common on the chest and back in men and legs in women. If caught early, they can be treated relatively easily, but since they are more likely to spread compared to basal and squamous skin cancers, they can become harder to threat if spread.
#### Merkel cell skin cancer
Merkel cell skin cancer is a rarer form of skin cancer caused by an overgrowth of Merkel cells—a specialised cell found in the epidermis. 
### Lung Cancer
Lung cancer is a type of cancer that starts in the lungs, where uncontrolled cell growth in the tissues of the lung create malignant lung tumors. They derive from transformed malignant cells that originate as epithelial cells or from tissues composed of the same. Certain other lung cancers are generated by the malignant transformation of connective tissue. Uncontrolled cell growth in the lungs can metastasize, spreading beyond the lung, entering the lymphatic circulation or via bloodborne spread into distant or nearby parts of the body. The two main types of lung cancer are small-cel lung carcinoma (SCLC) and non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC).
#### Non-small-cell lung cancer 
80-85% of lung cancers are NSCLC; their subtypes include  adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and large cell carcinoma. Adenocarcinomas  start in cells that secrete substances such as mucus, and typically occur in people that do or did smoke, but it is also common among non-smokers. It is also more common in women than men, and is typically found on the outer parts of the lung and is thus detected easily. Squamous cell carcinomas start in flat cells that line the inside of the airways in the lungs called squamous cells, and are typically found near the bronchus. Large cell sarcoma can occur anywhere in the lung and grows very quickly.
#### Small cell lung cancer (SCLC)
10-15% of lung cancers are SCLC and it is also called oat cell cancer. It tends to spread faster than NSCLC; studies have shown that 70% of people with SCLC have cancer that has already spread by the time it has diagnosed. Treatment for this subtype can involve chemotherapy or radiotherapy, but has a higher chance of reoccurring. 

### Prostate Cancer
The prostate is a part of the male reproductive system, along with two seminal vesicles, glands that are attached to each side of the prostate. It is the second most common cancer globally, and the fifth leading cause of cancer related death in men. Typically, age is a risk factor associated with prostate cancer, along with obesity. Almost all prostate cancers are adenocarcinomas—they develop from the gland cells. In some cases, prostate cancers grow and spread quickly, but in some, it remains unnoticed for a long time.
### Breast Cancer

### Colorectal Cancer


### Kidney/Renal Cancer

### Bladder Cancer


### Thyroid Cancer

### Endometrial Cancer

### Pancreatic/Exocrine Cancer

#### Adenocarcinoma
#### Neuroendocrine Pancreatic Cancer


### Leukemic Cancer
#### Acute lymphocytic Leukemia

#### Acute myelogenous Leukemia


### Brain Cancer


### Gynaecological Cancer

#### Ovarian Cancer
#### Cervical Cancer







