---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/idu/1-healthcare/11-08-2022-prm-3/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---

# Student Response Sheet Entry

#### What elements of science do you find in this PRM?
Clinical trials are an important part of pharmocology, and it is explained in some detail in this text. It uses appropriate scientific terminology and aims for effective science communication. It also explains the necessity of assays—investigative procedures which are crucial to in vitro (in the lab) and in vivo (using organisms) clinical trials. However, some of the definitions provided upon hovering on lesser-used words are not sufficient to explain what it really is. For example, pharmocokinetics deals with drug absorption, not just it *moving* hrough the body". The complexities of the clinical trial process including RCTs are important, but it doesn't explain how they work—one of the most important components is the Placebo effect and that the biochemists themselves are not initially aware of who has or has not been exposed to the drug prior to the trials.  

#### Why do you need both the disciplines to create this PRM?

Science communication is very important to effectively deliver information about various aspects of science—in this case, pharmacology. In order to present an effective video presentation, it is necessary to simplify terms and avoid the use of jargon. Applying literary devices such as the use of anaphora in order to ensure audience retention. Synthesizing the disciplines of science and L&L is necessary for more than just information about more than just clinical trials. Science is a tool—a process for advancement, for ensuring a better future for mankind. Vaccines, antibiotics, pandemics—the general public will only comprehend it if explained concisely and interactively, as seen in PRM 3. [Further Reading:](https://www.healthcaredive.com/news/cdc-reorganization-covid-public-health-monkeypox-walensky/629963/)