---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/research/keyword-definitions/1-structural-molecular-biology/"}
---

# Structural Molecular Biology
### What is it?
Structural molecular biology is a field that focuses on the three-dimensional structures of biological molecules, including proteins, nucleic acids, and carbohydrates. Structural molecular biologists use a variety of techniques, such as [[Research/Keyword Definitions/2. X-ray crystallography\|X-ray crystallography]], [[Research/Keyword Definitions/3. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy\|nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy]], and [[Research/Keyword Definitions/4. Cryo-electron microscopy\|cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM)]], to determine the structures of these molecules at high resolution.

Understanding the structures of biological molecules is important because it can provide insights into their function and mechanism. For example, the structure of a protein can reveal how it interacts with other molecules and how it performs its specific function in the cell. Similarly, the structure of a nucleic acid, such as DNA or RNA, can reveal how it stores and transmits genetic information.

### Careers in the Field
1.  Research scientist: Research scientists in structural molecular biology work in academic or industry settings, and they may be involved in conducting research to understand the structures of biological molecules and how they function.
2.  Professor: Professors in structural molecular biology may teach undergraduate or graduate courses in the field, as well as conduct research and mentor students.
3.  Biomedical engineer: Biomedical engineers may use structural molecular biology techniques to design and develop medical devices or therapies.
4.  Biotech or pharmaceutical researcher: Researchers in the biotech or pharmaceutical industry may use structural molecular biology techniques to develop new drugs or therapies.
5.  Government scientist: Government scientists in structural molecular biology may work in agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH) or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and may be involved in research to understand the structures of biological molecules and how they function.
6.  Science writer or science communicator: Science writers or science communicators who specialize in structural molecular biology may write articles or produce content for a variety of audiences, including the general public, policymakers, or other scientists.


### Other/Additional Comments