---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/research/keyword-definitions/4-cryo-electron-microscopy/"}
---

# Cryo-electron microscopy
### What is it?
- Cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) is a technique used to study the structures of biological molecules, such as proteins and nucleic acids, at high resolution. It is based on the principle that when biological molecules are frozen quickly (a process known as cryofixation), they can be preserved in a near-native state and imaged using an electron microscope.
- In cryo-EM, a sample of the biological molecule is prepared and then rapidly frozen using liquid nitrogen or a cryogen, such as propane. 
- A cryogen is a substance that is used to produce extremely low temperatures, typically below -150°C (-238°F). Some common cryogens include liquid nitrogen (-196°C/-320°F), liquid helium (-269°C/-452°F), and solid hydrogen (-253°C/-423°F)
- The sample is then placed in a high-resolution electron microscope, which uses a beam of electrons to produce an image of the sample. The image is recorded on a detector, such as a charge-coupled device (CCD) or a film, and can be analysed using specialized software.
- Cryo-EM is a powerful tool for determining the structures of biological molecules and has revolutionized the field of structural biology. It has allowed researchers to determine the structures of molecules that were previously difficult or impossible to study using other techniques, such as x-ray crystallography or NMR spectroscopy. It is commonly used in research labs and academic institutions, and it is also used in the biotech and pharmaceutical industry.

### Other/Additional Comments
> [!FAQ] What is a near-native state?
> A near-native state refers to a state in which a biological molecule is largely preserved in its native, or native-like, conformation. In other words, the molecule is in a conformation that is similar to the way it exists in its natural environment, such as in a cell or in solution.
> The native conformation of a molecule is its three-dimensional structure, which is determined by the arrangement of its atoms and the bonds between them. This structure is essential for the molecule's function, and any changes to the native conformation can affect the molecule's behaviour.
