---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/research/keyword-definitions/9-amyotrophic-lateral-sclerosis-als/"}
---

# Amytrophic Lateral Sclerosis
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, is a progressive neurological disease that affects the nerve cells (neurons) responsible for controlling voluntary muscle movement. The disease causes the death of these neurons, leading to muscle weakness, atrophy (shrinking), and eventually paralysis.

Symptoms of ALS usually begin with muscle weakness or stiffness in a specific part of the body, such as the hands, feet, arms, or legs. As the disease progresses, it can spread to other muscles, including those used for speaking, swallowing, and breathing. Eventually, most people with ALS lose the ability to move their limbs and body, and they may become completely paralyzed.

The cause of ALS is not fully understood, but it is thought to be a combination of genetic and environmental factors. There is no cure for ALS, and treatment is generally focused on managing symptoms and improving quality of life. The disease is usually fatal within 2 to 5 years of diagnosis, although some people live longer.

## Effect of Protein-protein interactions
Protein-protein interactions can play a role in the development and progression of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Proteins are important components of cells that perform a variety of functions, and they often interact with other proteins to carry out these functions.

One type of protein-protein interaction that has been linked to ALS is the formation of aggregates, or clumps, of proteins within neurons. In some cases of ALS, proteins such as TDP-43 and SOD1 accumulate in the cytoplasm (the fluid inside cells) and form aggregates that can damage or kill neurons. Other proteins that have been linked to ALS through protein-protein interactions include FUS and VCP.

Researchers are still trying to understand the precise mechanisms by which protein-protein interactions contribute to the development of ALS, and <mark class="Mint">more research is needed</mark> to determine how these interactions might be targeted to improve treatment for the disease. 
