---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/theatre/unit-3-e-portfolio/10-brechtian-theatre/"}
---

# Brechtian Theatre
Brechtian Theatre sought to break with the traditional, "Aristotelian" model of theatre, which emphasized the creation of a realistic, naturalistic world on stage and the emotional involvement of the audience in the characters and plot. Instead, Brechtian theatre sought to alienate the audience from the action on stage, and to encourage them to think critically and engage intellectually with the ideas and themes presented in the play.

One of the key features of Brechtian theatre is the use of "verfremdungseffekt" or "estrangement effect." This refers to the use of techniques that distance the audience from the action on stage, and prevent them from becoming emotionally involved in the story. This can be achieved through the use of techniques such as interrupting the flow of the story with songs, narrations, or other interruptions; using non-naturalistic sets, costumes, or lighting; or having the actors break character and address the audience directly. For example, in Brecht's play "The Good Person of Szechwan," the characters frequently break the fourth wall and directly address the audience, asking them to consider the social and political implications of the events that are unfolding on stage. These techniques are designed to prevent the audience from becoming absorbed in the story, and to encourage them to think critically about the ideas and themes presented in the play.

Another important feature of Brechtian theatre is the use of "gestus." This refers to the use of body language, gestures, and physical movement to convey meaning and to comment on the action of the play. In traditional theatre, gestures and movements are used to help create a sense of realism and to support the development of character and plot. In Brechtian theatre, however, gestus is used to help the audience understand the ideas and themes of the play, and to comment on the action. For example, an actor might use exaggerated gestures to indicate that a character is lying, or to show the audience the character's motivations or desires. Brecht also developed other techniques such as epic storytelling, which focuses on presenting a clear narrative and making it easy for audiences to understand the story. This is often done through the use of storytelling devices such as song, narration, and other elements that help to create a sense of epic scale.
Brecht saw theatre as a platform to address contemporary concerns and to engage audiences in discussions of these issues. Thus, it also involves the use of didacticism, or the idea that theatre can be used to educate and inform audiences about important social and political issues. This is often done through the use of characters who represent different political ideologies, and through the use of dialogue that is designed to spark debate and discussion among audiences.