---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/theatre/unit-3-e-portfolio/2-basic-research-on-different-forms/"}
---

# Basic Research on Different Forms
#### Physical Comedy
- It involves manipulation of the body to create a humorous effect: includes slapstick, mime, stunts, and facial expressions
- My idea of conveying the problems of the metaverse and persuading the audience to consider what will happen in a dystopian world wherein most people use/have access to virtual reality glasses, and all those glasses are owned by a single company. This can be shown through physical comedy by making fun of how it would appear if one person is completely absorbed in a virtual world, making gestures into the air—their actions do not have real world meaning.
- While physical comedy can be done as a solo performance, doing it as a duet has its own advantages because different perspectives and comedic parts can be shown simultaneously; it retains the audience's attention.

#### Pantomime
- Similar to a potential idea for physical comedy, a pantomime could be used to make fun of a big company inserting advertisements into the virtual reality headsets and worlds. It could show them as a villain, intent on exploiting the public and making as much money as possible. Can be both a solo and a duet performance, the latter because through mime, there can be a person supporting and not supporting my thesis statement; this can be depicted on stage.
- There is a focus on facial expressions, gestures, and movement.

#### Puppetry
- Puppetry can be used to show the audience a bird's eye view on the situation which I am depicting on stage. By using various skills such as design (costume), voice modulation, lighting, and music, a dystopian piece can be shown through puppetry.

#### Docu-drama
- Verbatim theatre is a form of documentary theatre which is based on the spoken words of real people and instances. It is derived from the concept of historical drama. It can be used to realize my idea because I can show past instances of statements by company leaders about how they will approach the metaverse technology, and use it as a foundation to build my own arguments. The skills involved would be voice modulation and blocking (to represent the real life environment). This could be a duet performance because one person could be responsible for the verbatim theatre and the other to further the narrative.

#### Art of Storytelling
- In the context of theatre, storytelling can be used to convey cultural and social narratives, not just for the purpose of entertainment but also to persuade. Gestures can be used to add to the story, and voice modulation will be necessary to show the different people and perspectives when it comes to the ramifications of adopting a virtual reality world. It is typically a solo performance, just like stand-up comedy.

#### Theatre of the Oppressed
- Theatre of the Oppressed was created by the Brazilian theatre practitioner Augusto Boal; it involves using theatre for social transformation. Itt can be used for activism, conflict resolution, community building, and even therapy. In TO, the audience is not made up of spectators but "spect-actors",  where everyone is allowed to have an opinion on the content of the piece. Theatre of the oppressed involves "giving the audience a means of production rather than the finished artistic product." It could involve basing a piece on a newspaper.
- In invisible theatre, it involves a direct intervention into society, aimed to provoke debate and clarify problems.
- In forum theatre, the audience is given a voice to comment on a short scene in a play e.g. one that represents oppression. The audience is encouraged to consider thoughts, ideas and solutions. When a change is made, the scene is enacted once again - representing the dialectic over didactic process. Boal shows us that discovering all possible perspectives can be better than just one. 
- In my performance, this could be potentially useful to show different narratives associated with the idea of the metaverse/virtual reality and how the audience can play a role in its future. However, communicating a dystopian theme through forum theatre is difficult and the evocative nature of the performance might be lost due to the spect-actors. 

#### Mask Theatre
- Mask theatre involves various skills such as clocking (staring straight at the audience so they can try to interpret what the character is thinking, characterization through gesture, and movement to ensure that the audience's focus is retained and non-verbal communication can be used to send a message. For my performance, it could be used to represent the virtual reality goggles and how one is estranged from society after putting them on. However, due to a lack of visible expressions and a clear disassociation from the real world, I don't think it is apt.

#### Environmental Theatre
- Environmental theatre involves a performance in an open-air environment that matches the setting of the play that is being performed. It is typically quite engaging to the audience. In my performance, I could choose to have the performance take place in  a drab room in which the sole focus is on me; the audience will be immersed in my performance because the set design is not limited by a stage.

#### Theatre in the Dark
- Theatre in the dark involves invoking the use of multiple senses in order to create an immersive performance. By limiting the audience's ability to see, their other senses of hearing, smell, touch, etc, are heightened. 
- In my performance, I could use theatre in the dark to attempt to immerse the audience into their own "multiverse", effectively making them feel like they are adopting the VR headset. This would ideally involve two people because many events need to take place simultaneously. It involves various skills such as voice modulation and intensity, usage of multi-sensual theatrical conventions, as well as sound engineering to captivate the audience.

#### Object Theatre
- Object theatre involves the use of readily available, everyday objects to tell a story. Unlike puppetry, this involves making the audience imagine the  scene which is being created with the aid of the vocal skills and object movements by the performer. This would ideally be a solo performance in which I could represent how the world is being affected by its population adopting virtual reality technology, but I find it rather limited.

#### Devised Theatre
- It is a method of theatre-making which is highly physical and movement skill based, involving improvisational acting in a collaborative environment. However, unlike completely improvised theatre, the improvisation is confined to the creation process. It involves various creative skills, as well as a heightened ability to adapt in new environments. On its own, it does not have as much correlation with my performance, but it is a way in which I can develop my plot.

#### Realism
- Realism involves a high degree of characterisation to ensure that my character is relatable to the target audience. It would also involve special attention being paid to the dialogue, setting, and plot to make it as  "real" as possible,  even if it is a dystopian world.  My performance should be able to communicate the various pitfalls  and potential dangers of adopting the Metaverse in our daily lives without seeming too abstract. A solo performance could work as well  as a duo performance to indicate the social interactions taking place.
#### Epic Theatre
- Epic theatre involves a didactic drama, utilizing various conventions such as the v-effekt in which the storyline is broken suddenly during the performance to directly address the audience so that they disassociate the play from real life. Additionally, it involves the use of the dialectic process in which the thesis and antithesis are in a constant struggle until the dénouement, after which the audience is persuaded of the thesis. I can utilize these Brechtian conventions and epic theatre in my performance to make it convincing and  to drive the idea that virtual reality worlds will destroy social interactions in the future.
