---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/humanities/unit-2-globalization/class-notes/10-does-trade-promote-fairness-and-equality/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

# To what extent... → Answer
### To what extent does trade promote fairness and equity?

International trade, at its core, is the voluntary exchange of goods between countries. There is an innate necessity for a nation to trade if it is to achieve its developmental objectives. When observing WTO (World Trade Organization) member countries, one can observe conspicuous inequalities when it comes to their level of participation in international trade.
In 2007, developing countries only accounted for ~37% of imports and exports, but only attributed to fourteen countries. The remaining 149 developing countries only accounted for 7% as reported by the [UNCTAD](https://unctad.org/system/files/official-document/tdr2007_en.pdf). Nearly 60% of world merchandise trade in 2007 was conducted by 33 developed countries. There are various reasons which may be the cause to this problem. In many cases, developing countries have lower levels of skills, industrialization and access to foreign and domestic capital; they have smaller markets. As such, their production is less efficient, their export capacity is limited, and they are thus less able to compete with industrialized economies on a global scale.

The WTO has created over 150 provisions called Special and Differential Treatment (S&DT) to achieve greater equality in its LEDC member countries. They include increased trading opportunities and provisions to secure the trade interests of developing countries. However, it has its own criticisms. For example, a country can self select themselves as a 'developing country'; the US has opposed countries such as India and China having this status.
The WTO postulates that maintaining trade barriers props up inefficient industries, distorting the prices of goods and services. They claim that as barriers are dismantled, countries are encouraged to pursue their specialization with minimized inefficiencies, and that it will result in mutual gains from trade, as well as rising standards of living, production, employment and income. They have also made efforts to reduce discrimination and increase competitive opportunity; if a certain country reduces tariffs for a certain product, other WTO member countries will be entitled to that lower tariff. Regardless of historic, political or strategic ties, such rules (which apply to subsidies and quotas as well) must be followed. 
The WTO also encourages reciprocity; in theory, member countries cannot pick and choose what treaties to accept and decline. As defined by the WTO, a free-rider country is one that "does not make any trade concessions, (but) profits, nonetheless, from tariff cuts and concessions made by other countries..."

However, while [[Humanities/Unit 2 - Globalization/Class Notes/5. Notes from Globalisation and its Discontents#Trade|trade liberalization]](made easier and beneficial through supranational organizations such as the WTO) can be advantageous to a developing country, it can have far-reaching and often disastrous consequences on the country's economy. The [[Humanities/Unit 2 - Globalization/Class Notes/5. Notes from Globalisation and its Discontents#IMF Case Studies|IMF]] (International Monetary Fund) is a big supporter of freeing markets, because without liberalization, countries cannot attract foreign capital and direct investments. However, due to international trade, local businesses can be 'quashed' by foreign competitors. A problem lies with the execution of trade liberalization; when Russia's markets were being freed in 1992, there was a debate concerning whether to implement a "shock therapy" strategy—where trade is effectively freed overnight—and a "gradualist approach." The result of the former caused economic consequences to Russia in the early 1990s. While it may encourage capital to go to where it was most productive, thus leading to higher output, it can lead to even more instability and inequality if the execution of such strategies are mismanaged.

Finally, some of the S&DT policies do not fully target the needs of developing countries. While promoting equality in theory, it does not fully support countries when met with high tariffs when they are attempting to export to developed countries e.g. African cotton exports to the USA. The benefits of these schemes are targeted at only a few developing countries due to restrictions on S&DT initiatives.

Despite these underlying issues with trade liberalization and their detrimental repercussions on the economies of developing countries, the efforts made by organizations such as the WTO are increasing LEDCs and LDC's role in international trade. Special provisions provide formal equality—that is, a belief of fairness and equality—and have been argued to be detrimental to developing countries simultaneously. With reforms in WTO provisions such as tightening grounds for eligibility, observing ways to mandate tariff reduction, targeting developing countries' exact needs will positively impact global fairness. 