---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/humanities/unit-2-globalization/class-notes/11-fairtrade-organization/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

# Notes on the Fairtrade Organization

> [!CITE] What is Fairtrade?
> Fairtrade supports and challenges businesses and governments and connects farmers and workers with the people who buy their products.
> They support disadvantaged farmers in developing/LEDC countries.

**How Fairtrade works**
- Fairtrade can make a difference in the lives of small farmers. They are "marginalized by the [[Humanities/Unit 2 - Globalization/Class Notes/5. Notes from Globalisation and its Discontents#Trade|trade system]]" and thus Fairtrade sets prices that cover the cost of producing a certain crop, which can avoid farmers falling into debt. This can be a 'safety net' for when prices drop
- It improves their working conditions, and bans discrimination, forced & child labour
- Farmers get to form better relationships with buyers which give them flexibility and security.

**Impact of Fairtrade**
- The impact of Fairtrade has been measured, such as supporting farmers that produce cocoa, coffee and bananas economically, thus making them less susceptible to poverty.
- It gives farmers bargaining power, which allows them freedom to set prices which suit the current market.
- It also has various environmental impacts, such as focusing on greenhouse gas emission reduction, soil erosion prevention, biodiversity protection and prohibition of harmful chemicals and waste management.
- It encourages and supports farmers in making the switch from toxic fertilizers to safer ones which protect the environment as well as their health.

## Forming Critical Questions
- To what extent does Fairtrade improve living conditions in LEDCs?
- How do agricultural regulations protect producers from large buyers?
- Discuss the impact of WFTO's policies in developing countries