---
dg-publish: true
---
# Cultural Diffusion 
1) What is cultural diffusion and how does it happen?
	The spread of cultural diffusion can be expansive, wherein culture can develop in a source area and then spread outward to other areas. It can also involve relocation where it migrates towards a new area. For example, in the US, Mexican culture has played a role in society along with the spreading of languages, cuisine, etc. For example Taco Bell is a US based MNC that serves "Mexican food". 
2) What happens in cultural diffusion
	- Cultural diffusion can involve acceptance
	- It can influence socio-political and economic structures 

#### Cultural Diffusion on a Macro level
If we consider culture as more than just social behaviours and look at them as ideologies, this diffusion can extend beyond just social hierarchies and societies. Due to the perception of capitalism in the Western world and that it is said to be a major driver of innovation and prosperity, it caused many nations to change from monarchies or socialist countries. 
Example: Transitioning Russia from a socialist country into a capitalist economy. 

### "Creative Destruction"
```ad-summary
title: Cultural Diffusion
Creative destruction involves the dismantling of older/estabiloshed processes to make way for improved ways of prodution. Examples include the internet, railroads, assembly lines, robots, etc.

```
Equilibrium is no longer the goal of an economy, but rather a dynamic one with new innovation. Creative destruction isn't necessarily a bad thing because by opening up avenues for new ideas to be created, it can cause evolution and further opportunities. 
Example: Netflix: an MNC that replaced traditional CD/DVDs. 
