---
dg-publish: true
---
# Hexagonal Thinking
## Connections
1. Media → Creative Destruction: The widespread influence that media has on society has contributed to the process of creative destruction wherein newer concepts and ideas have been promoted in favour of "anachronistic" ones. 
2. Migration → Acceptance: Due to many migrants, certain cultures have been 'accepted' to a greater level, such as Mexican culture in the US, Chinese culture in Chinatown, and so on. This also leads to the adoption of various cultural aspects such as food, clothing, arts, sports, etc.
3. New ideas → Political → Hegemony: Newer ideologies and concepts can lead to hegemony—socio-political dominance over another country—because the adoption of cultural aspects can lead to a change in social perception of the country from which it originated which can contribute to perceived superiority. An example is the advent of American/Western culture in India, where many people still consider them to be superior and buy products from those companies, visit those nations, etc.
4. Technology → Language: The advent of technology in the 21st century has furthered cultural diffusion, and especially through proponents of a culture—such as language. Apps such as Babbel and Duolingo allow anyone with access to technology to learn a foreign language—from Spanish to Navajo. This can also result in cultural preservation. 
#### Terms
- Convergence
- Divergence
- Language
- Non-native speaker
- Culture
- Music
- Novel ideologies
- Food
- Acceptance
- Creative destruction
- Media
- Migration
- Trade
- Exports
- Travel
- Sport
- Arts
- Clothing
- Cultural aspects
- War
- International
- Political
- Hegemony
