---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/humanities/unit-2-globalization/class-notes/14-history-units-and-recap/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false,"dgShowLocalGraph":true}
---

# History Unit Recap

### WW1
- Causes
	- MAIN - Militarism, Alliances, Imperialism, Nationalism
	- **Imperialism:**
		- An ideology that refers to exercising power or dominance over another state
		- Neo-imperialism refers to cultural hegemony in order to influence cultural dominance over other nations, through the spreading of propaganda, various ideologies, socioeconomic reforms, etc.
		- Imperialism can be justified by:
			- Economic necessity to extract resources
			- Strategy - geopolitical decisions to create bases/military occupation
			- Moral grounds - racism, being morally superior
			- Religion - spreading religion through missionaries e.g. the Dutch in the Congo
	- **Alliances:**
		- Triple alliance: Germany, Austria-Hungry, Italy → the ties between them went back centuries and this alliance symbolized that. It helps prevent a single country from dominating Europe. 
		- Triple Entente: Britain, France, Russia → Franco-Russian alliance formed in 1894, industrialization begins to take place. It is not the same as an alliance because it is not a legally binding agreement. 
		- Britain helped make sure that a single country is not becoming too powerful. These alliances became destabilizing forces because 
		- A split begins between the blocs begin in the early 20th century. *foreshadowing to WW1*
		- The Great Game was a political rivalry between Russia and Britain over countries such as Afghanistan. 
		- The Balkans: Bulgaria & Serbia
		- Great powers: can exert sovereign power on a global school. Today it includes the US, China and Russia
		- Definition: allying for defence purpose against a common enemy or mutual gain
	- **Militarism**
		- In Germany
			- Expansion of the navy (Anglo-German naval race), advocated for by Rear-Admiral Alfred Tirpitz. 
			- Bismarck had foreign policies such as being disingenuous and deflecting interest from other countries away 
		- At the same time, other European nations (and America) began ramping up their military spending. 
		- The Germans and Austro-Hungarians refined their schemes such as the Schlieffen plan where they would attack France first, and then Russia. They believed that it would involve a short war involving a quick deployment of forces and victory. 
	- **Nationalism**
		- Nationalism is the idea that a nation should be ruled by self-determination and is the rightful source of political power.
		- Increase in standardization:
			- Linguistics
			- Products
			- Companies
		- The emphasis on the military and the importance of the military (and nationalism) was reinforced with propaganda. 
		- Ideas of constitutionalism, democratization, began rising

### Apartheid
- The first to arrive in South Africa were the Dutch and the Portuguese 
- Four provinces in SA - Cape Province, Natal, Orange Free State, Transvaal. Latter formed by the war with the Zulu people to form the Boer republics.
- Segregation starts to be implemented in these provinces.
- Finding diamonds in the 19th century after Diamonds and Gold were found. This resulted in the creation of an exploitative economy.
- The Dutch and British agreed on black people not receiving equal amenities
- Apartheid legislation was passed to benefit white people by exploiting black people further. 
> [!QUOTE] Trevor Noah on Apartheid
> Apartheid was a police state, a system of surveillance and laws destined to keep black people under total control. In America you had the forced removal of natives onto reservations coupled with slavery followed by segregation. Imagine all three of these things happening to the same group of people at the same time. That was apartheid.
- Apartheid was passed in 1948
- The British people want segregation but not apartheid (it is very extreme)
- Nationalist party to supposedly safeguard their future and development by persecuting black people and disenfranchise them further. 


### Russian Revolution
###### What are the long-term causes?
- Agrarian backwardness
- Worker discontent
- The Russo-Japan war (1904/5)
- The process of industrialization
- Tsarist government
- 1905 revolution
###### Immediate Causes:
- World War One
- Food shortages
- Lena River Massacre
- Social unrest and the Petrograd Soviet
- Peasant uprisings
- Rasputin and the royal family
- Spreading ideas through vernacular print media (just like today)

### Treaty of Versailles
- War guilt: Germany and her allies had to accept responsibility for the war
- Germany had to pay £6600 million in reparations. 
- Territory - East Prussia was now cut off from the rest of Germany
- Port of Danzig was run by the League of Nations as a free city
- Rhineland became a demilitarized zone and Alsace-Lorraine was given to France
- Union between Germany and Austria was forbidden
- Germans were not invited to the talks and could not negotiate the terms
- Germany could not join the league of nations until the proved themselves as peace-loving.

