---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/humanities/unit-2-globalization/class-notes/5-notes-from-globalisation-and-its-discontents/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false,"dgShowLocalGraph":true}
---

# Globalisation and its Discontents

> [!QUOTE]
This raises three questions: To what extent are these results the consequences of globalization? To what extent are they inevitable? And if due to globalization, to what extent do they occur because the rules of the game for globalization are poorly designed, and to what extent do they come about because individual countries have done a poor job at managing the effects of globalization, given the rules?

- Globalization has played a central role, even if there were other important forces at play, like changes in technology and the structure of economies.

### Benefits
- It has contributed to creating the fastest rate of global economic growth ever, and the successes of emerging markets in particular, with hundreds of millions moving out of poverty—more than 800 million in China alone—and the creation of a new global middle class
- The UN has succeeded in reducing conflict and protecting children and refugees. Global diseases have been effectively attacked—including HIV/AIDS, the avian flu, and Ebola

### Drawbacks
#### Trade
- Within each country, there were winners and losers. Those at the top got more than 100 percent of the gains, meaning that the rest—and unskilled workers in particular—were worse off

#### Freeing Markets
- According to the IMF, free markets are more efficient and cause faster growth. They postulated that without liberalization, countries would not be able to attract foreign capital, and especially direct investments. China, which received the largest amount of foreign investment, did not follow any of the Western prescriptions (other than macrostability)- prudently forestalling full capital market liberalization. Broader statistical studies confirmed the finding that using the IMF's own definitions of liberalization, it did not entail faster growth or higher investment.
-  When foreign businesses enter, they often destroy local competitors, quashing the ambitions of small businessmen who had hoped to develop homegrown industry. There are many examples of this. Soft drinks manufacturers around the world have been overwhelmed by the entrance of Coca-Cola and Pepsi into their home markets. Local ice cream manufacturers find they are unable to compete with Unilever's ice cream products. ^5d2834
- **Russia**
	- The views of the shock therapists—strongly advocated by the U.S. Treasury and the IMF—prevailed in most of the countries. The gradualists, however, believed that the transition to a market economy would be better managed by moving at a reasonable speed, in good order (“sequencing”). One didn’t need to have perfect institutions; but, to take one example, privatizing a monopoly before an effective competition or regulatory authority was in place might simply replace a government monopoly with a private monopoly, even more ruthless in exploiting the consumer. Ten years later, the wisdom of the gradualist approach is at last being recognized: the tortoises have overtaken the hares. The gradualist critics of shock therapy not only accurately predicted its failures but also outlined the reasons why it would not work. Their only failure was to underestimate the magnitude of the disaster.
	- In the enthusiasm to get on with a market economy, most prices were freed overnight in 1992, setting in motion an inflation that wiped out savings, and moved the problem of macrostability to the top of the agenda. Everybody recognized that with hyperinflation (inflation at double-digit rates per month), it would be difficult to have a successful transition. Thus, the first round of shock therapy—instantaneous price liberalization—necessitated the second round: bringing inflation down. This entailed tightening monetary policy—raising interest rates. While most of the prices were completely freed, some of the most important prices were kept low—those for natural resources. With the newly declared “market economy,” this created an open invitation: If you can buy, say, oil and resell it in the West, you could make millions or even billions of dollars. So people did. Instead of making money by creating new enterprises, they got rich from a new form of the old entrepreneurship— exploiting mistaken government policies. ^ffe8e3
- The consequences—economic recession—of banking crises brought on by capital market deregulation, while painful for developed countries, were much more serious for developing countries. The poor countries have no safety net to soften the impact of recession. In addition, the limited competition in financial markets meant that liberalization did not always bring the promised benefits of lower interest rates. Instead, farmers sometimes found that they had to pay higher interest rates, making it more difficult for them to buy the seed and fertilizer necessary to eke out their bare subsistence living.
- The argument for globalization was simple: for instance, free capital markets would ensure that capital would go to where it was most productive. But often, freeing up capital markets doesn’t lead to higher output and faster growth. To the contrary, it can, if not well managed, lead to greater instability and more inequality.
- 

#### Exchange Rates
-  If a country raised interest rates, it would make it more attractive for capital to flow into that country. Capital flows into the country would help support the exchange rate and thus stabilize the currency. End of argument. At first glance, this appears logical. However, consider the case of South Korea as an example. Recall that in South Korea the crisis was started by foreign banks refusing to roll over their short-term loans. They refused because they worried about South Korean firms’ ability to repay.
- Higher rates made the recession worse and actually drove capital out of the country.

#### Destroying Communities
- Globalization not only exacerbated the already too-high level of inequality among individuals but also deeply weakened many communities. In the decades well before Ronald Reagan’s presidency, when a company grew, the executives and workers prospered together and so did the communities in which they lived and worked together. But increasing inequality split management, workers, and the communities in which they lived. Increasingly, as economic segregation grew apace, the executives making key decisions lived in separate neighbourhoods from ordinary workers. ^b7cefc
- Lack of social responsibility
- Commodification of labour
- Globalization has huge distributive effects on income and wealth—with large groups being worse off unless countervailing measures were taken to share the gains, but these measures were seldom undertaken.

#### Tax
- The failure to stop the use of globalization for tax avoidance is itself a manifestation of the mismanagement of globalization and an illustration of the power relations underlying writing the rules of globalization.


#### Monetary Policies
- There was a ready solution: the creation of a global reserve system. China, Russia, and France supported such a system, and the UN voted to have it studied.33 But the United States opposed such a system, or even the study of its feasibility—after all, under current arrangements, the United States could borrow from others at an interest rate close to zero, and they liked this. Given U.S. opposition, nothing happened.4

#### IMF Case Studies
**Ethiopia:**
Not only did Ethiopia have a sound framework but the World Bank had direct evidence of the competence of the government and its commitment to the poor. Ethiopia had formulated a rural development strategy, focusing its attention on the poor, and especially the 85 percent of the population living in the rural sector. It had dramatically cut back on military expenditures-remarkable for a government which had come to power through military means-because it knew that funds spent on weapons were funds that could not be spent on fighting poverty. Surely. this was precisely the kind of government to which the international community should have been giving assistance. But the IMF had suspended its program with Ethiopia, in spite of the good macroeconomic performance, saying it was worried about Ethiopia'S budgetary position. Ethiopia, like many developing countries, derived much of its revenues from foreign assistance. The IMF worried that if this aid dried up, Ethiopia would be in trouble. Hence it argued that Ethiopia's budgetary position could only be judged solid if expenditures were limited to the taxes it collected. The obvious problem with the IMF's logic is that it implies no poor country can ever spend money on anything it gets aid for.

