---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/extracurricular/red-brick-hacks/research/1-light-fields/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false,"dgShowLocalGraph":true}
---

# Light Field
## Research on Light  Field
- Light field is a function that describes the amount of light flowing in every direction through every point in space"
- Faraday proposed that light should be interpreted  as a field
- It is a plenoptic function meaning that the intensity  of each light ray is described as  a function of visual angle, wavelength, time, and viewing position. It is five dimensional.
- The space of all possible light  rays is given by its **radiance**. 
	- Radiance
		- "Radiance is the radiant flux emitted, reflected by a given surface per unit solid angle per unit projected area. Radiance is used  to characterise diffuse emission and reflection of radiation. Also known as intensity."
		- Radiometry is a set of techniques for measuring electromagnetic radiation including visible light
		- Radiant flux is the radiant energy emitted/reflected per  unit time. (W)
		- Spectral flux is the radiant flux per unit frequency or wavelength. (W/Hz or W/nm)
		- Solid angle $\Omega$ is a measure of the amount of field of view from a point that an object covers. $\Omega = \frac{A}{r^{2}}$
- Light fields can tell us what can be perceived. When we measure a light  field with a camera, rays are assumed to have constant radiance, and thus it is a four dimensional light field. It typically requires a rotating arc of cameras.
- Then, the light field is  processed by observing how sub-images differ  from each other because they captured rays from slightly  different positions. The disparity between pixels is then used to compute the colour and angularity information, and then to calculate each object's position in space and its distance from the camera. 
- How is this useful?
	- Light field technology can be used to change fundamental features of an image after it is taken. This means you can change what parts of the image should be in focus or blurry, adjust the depth of field, change the perspective, and more. Potentially useful solution for VCD!
## Light Field Display
- Direction of each ray is given by plenoptic function: $$L(x,y,z,\theta,\psi)$$
- $(x,y,z)$ represents the three dimensional coordinates of the position of the ray, note that z  can be ignored
- $(\theta, \psi)$ represents the direction
- Light field display is placed on top of the device and used to capture/manipulate light fields from the surface


